---
layout: post
title: "x64dbg (My first baby steps)"
image: ""
date: 2023-10-18 10:10:02
tags:
  - fundamentals
  - debugger
  - x64dbg
  - assembly

description: ""
categories:
  - Malware Developing
---

<!-- add the button style & script -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/css/applause-button.css"/>
<script src="/assets/js/applause-button.js"></script>

<style>
	#myBtn {
  		display: none;
  		position: fixed;
  		bottom: 40px;
  		right: 50px;
  		z-index: 99;
  		font-size: 12px;
  		border: 1px solid black;
  		outline: black;
  		background-color: #262626;
  		color: white;
  		cursor: pointer;
  		padding: 10px 22px 10px 22px;
  		border-radius: 10px;
  		font-family: 'Open Sans';
}

	#myBtn:hover {
  		background-color: #5d4d7a;
}
	applause-button {
		margin: auto;
	}
	.header-site .site-title {
      	padding-top: 5px;
      	color: white;
      	text-align: center;
      	font-weight: bold;
      	padding-left: 19px;
	}
	
	.help-img {
		max-width: 75%;
	}

	.post-content img { 
		margin: 1.875rem auto;
		display: block;
	}

	table {
      font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
      border-collapse: collapse;
      width: 100%;
    }

    th, td {
      border: 1px solid #dddddd;
      text-align: left;
      padding: 8px;
    }

    th {
      background-color: #f2f2f2;
    }
</style>

<button onclick="topFunction()" id="myBtn" title="Go to top">↑</button>

<script>
// When the user scrolls down 20px from the top of the document, show the button
window.onscroll = function() {scrollFunction()};

function scrollFunction() {
  if (document.body.scrollTop > 20 || document.documentElement.scrollTop > 20) {
    document.getElementById("myBtn").style.display = "block";
  } else {
    document.getElementById("myBtn").style.display = "none";
  }
}

// When the user clicks on the button, scroll to the top of the document
function topFunction() {
  document.body.scrollTop = 0;
  document.documentElement.scrollTop = 0;
}
</script>

<p>Hello folks, last week I had a discussion with (0xvm)[https://twitter.com/0xvm] about my future in the offensive security field. The idea was to delve deeply into low-level understanding and learn about "real hacking"😛, not just the tools and methodologies associated with Red Teaming. Every time I speak with this guy, he inspires me. I remember that day; I didn't sleep all night, as I kept thinking about what he had told me. And here I am, boyz!<br /><br />

Moreover, this is my first post, so please be patient and forgiving with me, plz 🙏<br /><br />

Before we begin, we will explain some terminology to become more familiar with the topic:<br />

<strong>Debugger</strong>: A debugger is a software tool that helps programmers identify and correct errors in a computer program's source code. It allows users to monitor the execution of a program, track variables, examine memory, and identify issues such as bugs, errors, or flaws in the code.

<strong>Disassembler</strong>: A disassembler is a software tool that is used to convert machine language or assembly language, which is a low-level programming language, into a more human-readable form. It allows the user to view the assembly code representation of a compiled program or executable file.

<strong>Registers</strong>: CPU registers are small, high-speed storage locations where data can be efficiently read or manipulated. For a x86 architecture, the CPU maintains and uses a series of nine (9) 32-bit registers, and for a x86-64 architecture, it maintains and uses a series of sixteen (16) 64-bit registers.<br />

The following table illustrates the CPU registers for the x86 and x86-64 architectures:<br />

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Register</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>x86</th>
    <th>x86-64</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EAX</td>
    <td>Accumulator register used for arithmetic and logic operations.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EBX</td>
    <td>Base register, often used for storing data and addresses.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ECX</td>
    <td>Counter register typically used in loop operations.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EDX</td>
    <td>Data register used in I/O operations and for holding immediate values.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ESI</td>
    <td>Source index register used for source data in string operations.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EDI</td>
    <td>Destination index register used for destination data in string operations.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EBP</td>
    <td>Base pointer register that helps in referencing function parameters and local variables.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ESP</td>
    <td>Stack pointer register that points to the top of the stack.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>EIP</td>
    <td>Instruction pointer register that holds the memory address of the next instruction to be executed.</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
    <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RAX</td>
    <td>Accumulator register in 64-bit mode, used for arithmetic and logic operations.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RBX</td>
    <td>Base register in 64-bit mode, often used for storing data and addresses.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RCX</td>
    <td>Counter register in 64-bit mode, typically used in loop operations.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RDX</td>
    <td>Data register in 64-bit mode, used in I/O operations and for holding immediate values.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RSI</td>
    <td>Source index register in 64-bit mode, used for source data in string operations.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RDI</td>
    <td>Destination index register in 64-bit mode, used for destination data in string operations.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RBP</td>
    <td>Base pointer register in 64-bit mode, helps in referencing function parameters and local variables.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RSP</td>
    <td>Stack pointer register in 64-bit mode, points to the top of the stack.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>RIP</td>
    <td>Instruction pointer register in 64-bit mode, holds the memory address of the next instruction to be executed.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R8</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R9</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R10</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R11</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R12</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R13</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R14</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R15</td>
    <td>Extra register available in 64-bit mode for general use.</td>
    <td>❌</td>
    <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<div align="center">
<!-- add the button!-->
<applause-button style="width: 58px; height: 58px;" color="#5d4d7a" url="https://nickvourd.github.io/x64dbg-intro"/>
</div>